[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to "Beyond Belief,"
George Noory with you.
And our special guest
is Clifford Carnicom.
He's the founder and president
of the Carnicom Institute.
Now, that is a
not-for-profit research
and educational
organization that
is devoted to environmental
and health-related issues.
His professional career
includes advanced research
and development in the
science of geodesy--
and we'll tell you
about that in a moment--
with the Department of
Defense under a very
top secret clearance.
Top secret, so can you
tell us everything?
>>CLIFFORD CARNICOM: No,
but the general principles
can come out, one
way or another.
>>NOORY: Clifford,
what is geodesy?
>>CARNICOM: Geodesy is a
science that actually has it's--
well, it goes back to
the beginning of time.
But it was developed in
the 1800s more fully.
And it has to do with
the study of the Earth.
And it covers three main
fields of the Earth.
One would be the size
and shape of the earth.
And that's in a very
detailed, comprehensive,
three-dimensional
sense, not just a ball.
And the second would be what we
call satellite geodesy, which
would have to do with all
the dynamics of spacecraft,
and orbital mechanics,
and that type of thing.
And the third part
would be a study
of the gravitational field,
three-dimensional modeling
of the gravitational
field of the Earth.
And that's the
field that I was--
>>NOORY: I see.
>>CARNICOM: --most involved with
was the gravitational modeling.
So it's basically the
geophysical aspects
of the Earth as
well as geometric.
>>NOORY: What we know of the
planet, and what we're told,
are they two different things?
>>CARNICOM: Well, it depends on
what scale you're talking of.
That's a very physical,
mathematical, astronomical
science.
So these sciences are
very deeply rooted,
have deeply
conventional history.
That needs to be understood.
That's a very
solid, real science.
This is the background that
I come from is primarily
a scientific background.
I am curious about most
everything in the world.
And I understand that the
world is full of mysteries--
>>NOORY: Oh, yeah!
>>CARNICOM: --in
many, many ways.
But I think it's
very important to,
also, connect with the
history before us and the work
that people have done
before us, to prepare us,
along the conventional
lines, so that we're
able to accept new information
that comes in our time.
>>NOORY: What got
you into this field?
I mean, you don't wake
up as a little boy
and say, this is what I'm
going to do when I grow up!
>>CARNICOM: When I
first got into school,
I actually was an art major.
So my mind is a little bit--
>>NOORY: Really?
>>CARNICOM: Yeah, my
mind is a little bit,
let's say, diverse, in
terms of what interests me.
But I've also always had,
also, an intuitive involvement
and appeal with the
world of mathematics.
It's very pure form to me.
I think music and
mathematics are
two of the purest
forms of communication,
I suppose, in the
existence in the cosmos.
And so I've always
been drawn to that.
And one makes choices
about their career path.
And at one point, I
realized the art world
was going to have
its own complications
and difficulties of, let's
say, how to make a livelihood.
So I took my talents
in the hard sciences,
is what it amounts to.
But also, because I had an
intuitive appeal to them
as well.
>>NOORY: Geoengineering,
which is a phrase
we hear all the time,
but exactly what is that?
>>CARNICOM: Yeah, it's a
phrase that's actually,
it's been coined to try and
fit a set of circumstances that
have developed in our lifetime.
Now, the term has, to me, taken
on a very limited definition
in the public sphere.
You can now find
academic programs
in the field of geoengineering.
It's a fairly new evolution
in terms of science.
The definition of that field
is highly restrictive, to me,
and is not reflective
of, really,
what the totality of that word
means, if we look at a word.
That definition,
as I understand it,
as it has propagated through
the academic, and political,
and media circles, is restricted
to the study of, basically,
controlling heat
flow into the earth.
The issue of global warming
and reflecting solar radiation
is how that word is
classically framed now,
in all ways to the public.
This is how the
public, I think, is
intended to perceive that word.
That is not what that word
means to me as I take it
by its root, root
meaning, as well as
what I see in my research.
>>NOORY: And so what
does it mean to you?
>>CARNICOM: Well, you take
those two words together.
You start with engineering,
and you start with geo,
and you dissect those.
Engineering is a
very broad science.
And in general, in
general, engineering,
it's the development of systems.
It's not a specific program.
It's the development of systems.
Those systems are
usually very technical.
They're usually very complex.
And there is even
the word of savviness
that goes with
engineering, to come up
with a clever way of
solving a problem.
This is what makes it unique.
And engineering is
applied to, literally,
any type of building, any
kind of system that we
see in our world.
If you now couple that
word with the word
geo, which means Earth, this
is what that word means.
This word means,
in my definition--
this definition is not readily
accepted by the public.
But it's very real, in
terms of what is happening--
and that is the
development of systems
applications through
almost any means
imaginable, involving
creativity, technology,
ingenuity, systems of
control, and manipulation,
applied to the Earth,
the Earth as a whole,
not a specific single
part of Earth dynamics
>>NOORY: Is this a
good thing for us?
>>CARNICOM: It could
be either, right?
>>NOORY: Oh, boy.
>>CARNICOM: It can be either.
What can we do with technology?
What can we do with
the human mind?
We can do whatever our
creativity allows us to do.
It allows us to be evil,
and it allows us to be good.
The work that I have become
involved in, and, to me,
there is no question
that it involves
the application of exactly
what I'm speaking of,
systems of technology
towards the Earth.
>>NOORY: Give me an example.
Give me an example.
>>CARNICOM: All right,
so weather control
is one of these, all right?
I'll go through all--
I have a list of seven, if
I can remember them all.
>>NOORY: All right.
>>CARNICOM: This topic of
geoengineering is generally
perceived and phrased simply
in the sphere of weather
and potentially
weather modification,
a soft and diplomatic word,
versus weather control having
more of a direct
application or even --
>>NOORY: That sounds a
little more evil, doesn't it?
>>CARNICOM: At least
military connotations,
without any doubt.
I have a list of seven
areas of application
that have evolved since my work.
And that has not changed.
And we'll see if I can remember
at least a good portion
of them.
The first one, first of
all, I call it environmental
control rather than weather.
Weather is a part of an
environmental control.
But environmental control means
the entire environment, not
just weather.
>>NOORY: Not just weather.
>>CARNICOM: Not
just weather, OK?
So that's number
one to begin with,
that already basically
dispels my acceptance
of that limited definition
that is commonly perceived.
Second would be
military operations, OK?
And I'll have to go through
them briefly because--
>>NOORY: OK, that could be huge.
>>CARNICOM: Every
one of these is huge.
Every one of-- a third one would
be electromagnetic operations,
OK?
And each of these is an entire
field of discussion in itself.
And anything that
I'm speaking of
is concluded to result
directly from evidence
that I have acquired and
gained over the years.
Another one would be that
of biological activity, OK?
And yes, there are--
it's fair to say, there are
nefarious aspects potential
within each one of these, OK?
>>NOORY: Of course.
>>CARNICOM: That's true.
But the first point is
to be aware of them.
And then you can
start to examine
what the applications might be.
So we're at biological.
Next would be
surveillance applications.
There are surveillance
applications
in terms of the evidence
that's available to us.
Another would be,
literally, geophysical.
We talked about
geodesy a little bit
and how you're dealing with the
scale of the Earth as a whole.
There are potentially
geophysical applications
of the technologies
that we're seeing,
such as tectonics,
this type of thing,
global storm systems,
this type of thing.
And then the last one is
a little bit more exotic.
And yet it has to be
included in the list.
And that is since,
basically, our atmosphere
has been modified.
We will have to accept--
>>NOORY: There's no
question about in your mind.
>>CARNICOM: There is absolutely
no question about that.
And within that
atmospheric modification,
a more sophisticated application
would be what I call--
I call it the detection of
exotic propulsion systems.
That's the phrase I use.
What we're saying there is that
if you have an altered medium,
and if it's been in an ionic
condition, which we could talk
about more, is
existing within that,
changes of the
electrically-charged state
of that atmosphere
and detection of those
could be another
interesting application.
This is a little
bit more exotic.
The others are fundamental.
We could talk about
them for hours.
But nevertheless,
I can certainly
envision the value of the
ability to detect changes
in the state of that medium.
And that could certainly
involve any type of, basically,
craft of motion, of anything
that we could possibly imagine.
>>NOORY: Former
weathercaster Scott Stevens
was on Gaia's "Open Minds" show.
And he is a proponent with
you of geoengineering.
>>REGINA MEREDITH: And that
is everyone's pointing--
all the newscasts and so forth--
global climate change.
Global climate change is
responsible for these patterns.
And there are some insane
patterns, like I mentioned.
However, virtually
none of them talk
about geoengineering and global
climate change having anything
to do with quote,
"geoengineering," the less
polite term, "chemtrailing."
And you can't have
that conversation.
No one can talk intelligently
about that phenomena
unless they address
geoengineering, right?
>>SCOTT STEVENS: It's
like having an apple pie.
And that was a great apple pie.
But there was no apples in it.
>>MEREDITH: Exactly.
>>STEVENS: This key
ingredient, this key factor
is not being discussed.
>>MEREDITH: Well, even Al Gore
talks about geoengineering,
and its reality,
and the need for it.
But when it comes to the actual
implications of it happening
around the globe over thousands
of miles, hundreds of thousands
of miles of territory,
back and forth,
no one will talk about it.
>>NOORY: And that was
our own Regina Meredith
from Gaia's "Open Minds."
Pretty interesting, wasn't it?
>>CARNICOM: It is.
To me, there are three levels
that need to be discussed here.
One would be there is a formal
acknowledgment of the term
engineering.
And like I said, there
are now academic programs.
And they are restricted to
that very specific sphere
that I mentioned of
solar radiation control.
The second context in which
that term is being used
is what is called geoengineering
in the sense of, call it,
extreme harsh
pollution in our world
that we're not talking about.
That's the second level.
The third level is
the list of seven
that I gave you of which no one
is speaking of at that level.
>>NOORY: They're afraid to.
>>CARNICOM: They think it
would be an accomplishment
to speak about geoengineering
in terms of weather control.
I'm saying the real
world says that we
have an entire sphere
of a minimum of seven
major global applications
that everything
says that they're active.
This is not
hypothetical whatsoever.
Everything says that
these are active programs.
So the discussion, even within
the context presented there,
is not nearly as broad as
it eventually needs to be.
>>NOORY: Clifford, do you think
the public would freak out
if they knew about these
different things that were
happening with geoengineering?
>>CARNICOM: There
are people that they
do live a life based in fear.
I can't speak for others.
I have to follow my
own sense of truth.
And I have to be
responsible for myself.
And I attempt to be
responsible in my life.
I have no desire, no motive
whatsoever to introduce
sensationalism into this issue.
I have no motive whatsoever to
introduce fear into this issue.
I do have the need, and the
desire, and the obligation,
and the responsibility
to introduce the evidence
that I know exists.
My standards are those of what
I regard as a court of law,
anything that I-- and
also the rules of science.
I need to be able to
present that evidence.
We must deal with
the world as it
is, not as we wish it to be, or
try to ignore things that might
have an impact because
we are subject to it,
whether we wish to
admit it or not.
We are subject to
our world around us.
And we are participants in it.
So whether or not we're worried
about fear, from my side,
is irrelevant in the sense
that we must confront the world
that we live in.
And ultimately, we
are the participants.
We are the ones that affect
the world, not someone
else directing us.
>>NOORY: This planet,
Cliff, is so huge.
They actually can
control and manipulate?
>>CARNICOM: Well.
>>NOORY: As big
as this planet is?
>>CARNICOM: We
know that the world
is changing in terms of its
sense of scale in our lives.
And the world is--
>>NOORY: It's getting smaller.
>>CARNICOM: (CHUCKLING) Look,
we can say the world's small.
But we can also look at in
an entirely different way.
And we're at the point where
every square inch on this world
is accounted for in some way.
We're at the place where
every single human being is
accounted for on this world.
So I don't know that I would
accept that it's so small.
As our understanding
of our place increases,
we realize we are one small
place in a much bigger place.
And we need to respect that,
that we are not dominions
of the entire cosmos, OK?
>>NOORY: Synthetic biology
is an important factor
in all of this.
Let's take a look.
>> 20 years ago,
scientists learned to read
a creature's entire DNA
sequence, beginning to end.
A genome, it's called.
They did this for simple
things, like bacteria, and then
for more complex flies,
and eventually for humans.
And then they began to
tinker, to take the glow
from a jellyfish, and
transfer it to a cat,
to make critters do what
they'd never done before.
And as biologists
got better at this,
says Stanford professor Drew
Endy, a new kind of science
was born.
>>DREW ENDY: It's called
synthetic biology.
It's a means to an end.
>> What can we do with the new
tools of synthetic biology?
Well, we can improve on
what's been spelled out
over 3 billion
years of evolution.
We can take it beyond reading
genomes or editing genomes
and start writing genomes, our
own ideas of what life should
be like, making
creatures drastically
different from any
that have ever existed.
And how do you do that?
Well, already, one
group of scientists
have rewritten and rebuilt
the entire instruction
kit for the very
humble, little yeast.
And they plan to put their
new recipe into a cell.
And if everything goes
according to plan,
it will come alive and begin
making baby yeast, exactly
like its most unusual parent.
It will be new in the world.
This synthetic yeast will
break the continuous chain
of evolution that links
every creature back
to the first living cell.
It will be discontinuous, in
a way a thing unto itself.
And then where do we
take this new technology?
How far should we or will we go?
>>NOORY: What do you think of
that explanation we just saw?
>>CARNICOM: I think
that's, actually,
a very well presented video
on a very important topic.
And that subject is that
we are on the threshold
of a complete change
in terms of our ability
to interact and manipulate
life and biological processes.
There is a term called
CRISPR that's come out
over the last few years.
And I don't make claims to
be in a genetic scientist.
But I study enough to know
the general principles.
And many of us are aware of
the idea of gene splicing
and modifying,
genetically-modified organisms,
that type of thing.
But this term CRISPR applies--
really, the image is
that of a word processor.
We know what it's like to
take what a word processor is
compared to our time
on the typewriter,
and cutting a snip
out of something,
and moving around, and
making anything you want.
We are at this point
with genetic ability now.
The CRISPR technology
allows for, basically,
cut and paste of genetic code.
>>NOORY: That's
kind of dangerous
though, Clifford, isn't it?
>>CARNICOM: It truly is a brave
new world because the question
is do we have--
are we responsible?
Are we responsible enough to
be able to manage and handle
that kind of
information properly?
And unfortunately, history
says we're not, OK?
>>NOORY: That's true.
>>CARNICOM: Human beings--
>>NOORY: We're not capable.
>>CARNICOM: --can claim
a element of knowledge.
But they cannot
historically show the level
of responsibility that goes
along with that to manage that
information.
Nuclear weaponry would be a
classic example of this, OK?
Our environmental damage
would be a classic example.
These operations that are
taking place in our planet
right now, which encompass
all seven of those fields,
they are of the same ilk, OK?
There is no demonstrated
responsibility
of our means to understand the
impact of what we're actually
doing to our planet.
So I think the video
is very important.
And it's directly
relevant in my work
because I mentioned to you
the biological aspect, right?
>>NOORY: As one of those seven.
>>CARNICOM: The
biological aspect is huge.
It is a very uncomfortable topic
for many of us to speak about.
But once again, we must confront
the evidence that exists.
And the evidence
demonstrates that there
has been the dispersion
of a basically, honestly,
a new form of life.
An entire new arena
of microbiology
has been distributed
upon this planet.
Or let us say, it has taken
hold on this planet at a level
that many of us could not
even begin to imagine it.
It literally exists.
You could put out--
I could put out a good
quality air filter,
probably anyplace
on this planet.
And I suspect I would be
able to produce evidence
of a microbial nature
that should astonish us,
if we actually look
into this field.
And the behavior,
and characteristics,
morphology of this
particular microbe
pose those very
same questions that
are raised in this video of,
are we dealing, potentially,
with a synthetic form of life,
or at least something that,
let's say, crosses the
norms of how biology
is classified on this planet?
This is where the
conventional science comes in,
that we must become familiar
with it, study what that is.
And in that world,
it's based upon what
are called domains of life,
that those domains of life
are determined by
genetic origin.
You now have to contrast that
against available information
of a microbial form
that does not seem
to fit well into that system.
And that is a
fundamental problem
when you violate
the basic foundation
of biological classification
as it is established now.
It should be raising
all kinds of questions
about, why are we
not investigating?
Why are we not
taking this to heart
if the evidence is before us?
Why are we ignoring
the evidence?
Why are we not
acknowledging the evidence?
Because I'm telling
you that it is there.
>>NOORY: Why are we doing
this bioengineering?
What are we trying
to accomplish here?
>>CARNICOM: There's always
different directions
I can take in terms of
an answer to a question.
And I can't say that any one is
necessarily the single answer.
One answer, not even an
answer, but one attribute--
I see human beings
as being really
a most curious species
as I look at them from--
I study history too.
And you look at the
evolution of the human race.
And one of the things
that marks the human race
is that we, basically,
fuss with anything
we can get our hands on.
>>NOORY: And alter
and manipulate.
>>CARNICOM: We will do
anything we can possibly
imagine is what it amounts to.
The idea of science fiction,
as I was growing up,
you have this idea
of science fiction
as something that's impossible,
something that is removed.
As I have grown and aged, I
have come to the conclusion
that if any single human being
can imagine, not necessarily
even produce,
imagine anything, it
is within the sphere of
consideration and possibility
of occurring, OK?
And this applies to anything
and everything we speak of.
And one of them would certainly
include the desire to control,
manipulate, and thus even
quote, "create" life.
>>NOORY: What could go
wrong in doing that?
>>CARNICOM: Everything.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>CARNICOM: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: Oh, boy.
>>CARNICOM: Well, it's
just a fact, right?
Everything.
>>NOORY: And has it
gone wrong already,
and we just don't know about it?
>>CARNICOM: We don't know
enough because, unfortunately, I
do not have a network of
what I would call dedicated
professionals willing to commit
themselves to the problems
before us, to truly assess the
scope and impact of what it is
that exists before us with
this alteration of life
on this planet.
When I'm speaking
of microbial life,
this microbial life is
affecting our existence, OK?
It is.
There's no way it can be denied.
It is affecting our life.
It's affecting all
life on this planet,
and how you can let
something sit like that, OK?
How can you ignore that
evidence which exists?
Are you even willing to
look at the evidence?
Because how can you
answer your question
of what the impact
is unless you even
know what you're working with?
And right now, that work is
contained within, basically,
a set of notebooks that I
have accumulated and developed
over the last 20 years that
are a record of my work.
This is the only place that I
know that that problem is being
addressed correctly,
the best way that I can,
as a single individual.
Do you think that I have the
capacity, even the talent,
and the skill to address the
entire scope of problems that
is inherent in the claim
of a new form of biology
on this planet, that
affects all life, including
the human species?
>>NOORY: There's
an old saying, it's
not good to play around
with Mother Nature.
I think that may be true.
>>CARNICOM: Well,
let's just say, I can--
well, you can get off into
spiritual discussions.
Let's just say, I am in awe.
I am in awe, throughout
my entire life,
at the world of nature
around me, entirely in awe.
>>NOORY: And by being in awe,
is that what God has given us?
Or is that what
we have given it?
>>CARNICOM: Oh, no, we
are not the gifters.
>>NOORY: At all.
>>CARNICOM: No, no,
we're screaming,
babbling kids in the crib.
>>NOORY: Are we playing
around with something
a little too dangerous.
>>CARNICOM: We are
playing around with things
that we do not have the
ability to even comprehend
the full impact.
We never, never will
have the capacity
to understand the full
impact of that which
exists in this universe, never.
>>NOORY: How do
we know, Clifford,
that this manipulation,
this bioengineering,
this whatever they're
doing to the planet
isn't affecting us with some new
diseases, and new things that
are happening?
>>CARNICOM: Well, it is.
There is a term
called Morgellons.
I didn't create the term.
It has come into existence,
and it has a problem.
The term has a problem in that
if language is not sanctioned
by those that have the
means to control, basically,
the structure of
language, basically, then
the term is not accepted.
Morgellons is a term that
has evolved to describe
a new disease in our world, OK?
>>NOORY: I started getting
calls years ago on the radio
show "Coast to
Coast" from people
talking about Morgellons.
And initially, I'd say,
what the heck is this?
But then they would
talk about it,
and I'm going to
have you explain what
this disease apparently is.
But they were talking
about little fibers
growing out of their arms, and
feeling like there were insects
crawling under their skin.
What the heck is this thing?
>>CARNICOM: The term is
applied to a condition which
does exist.
It is real.
The term, the name was
given by a citizen.
And therefore, it
is not accepted.
There is no formal acceptance
of the condition or disease,
whatever we wish to call it.
So it exists in
this ambiguous state
that there's a lot of evidence
to say that it's real.
And I would go beyond
the point of a lot.
The evidence is clear
what is happening here.
>>NOORY: It's there.
>>CARNICOM: OK, there is.
And it ties in directly with
the microbial discoveries
that I am speaking of--
>>NOORY: Interesting.
>>CARNICOM: --that have
occurred in my research.
So there is no
formal acceptance.
And in fact, it's so poorly--
>>NOORY: Is there a denial?
>>CARNICOM: Oh, it's
more than denial.
Lives are being destroyed.
A person will go to a doctor.
They will show
physical symptoms.
These symptoms are
quite real, OK?
We're not imagining.
I have spent years studying
the so-called filaments
that we're speaking of, OK?
I will claim to know
the source of this.
>>NOORY: They are
growing out of people.
It's real.
>>CARNICOM: This is
a real condition.
It's physical, and the
samples can be produced.
And I can produce
them in more ways
than you would
want to know about.
But the general scenario
that happens over, and over,
and over is someone seeks
medical help or treatment.
And the fact is they are
classified as being delusional.
I have heard many cases.
And this is the norm.
This is not the exception.
There are many cases I've heard
of where they will be presented
with physical evidence.
And it simply will
not be accepted.
>>NOORY: They won't take it.
>>CARNICOM: There is even
a distance being kept, OK?
It will not be examined.
I can show you very simple
things under the microscope.
There is no, no excuse for not
a direct observation of start
with the microscope.
We can go on from there
into all kinds of work.
But start with the microscope.
You can not excuse
that, [INAUDIBLE]..
>>NOORY: It's there.
>>CARNICOM: But it is not done.
And that person--
the history is there,
for any of us that
wish to look at it.
These folks are labeled
as being delusional, OK?
>>NOORY: And kooks.
>>CARNICOM: And they
are suffering, OK?
And none of us are removed from
this prospect of suffering.
Many are suffering.
My small nonprofit has received
well over a dozen offers
of people trying to
give me their body, OK?
You have no idea how much
these people are suffering, OK?
>>NOORY: They're
that frustrated.
>>CARNICOM: OK, and I have
no capacity whatsoever
to even begin to address.
This is a people
offering their body.
I have hundreds, hundreds
of the suffering.
You can not imagine, OK?
We can not excuse ourselves.
We can not play the
game of language,
and delusion, and
avoidance, and denial.
We can not do that and live in
any good conscience whatsoever.
>>NOORY: Yet we're doing that
>>CARNICOM: And I don't know
when that time is coming.
But we have no excuse
for it whatsoever.
>>NOORY: Cliff, "NBC News" did
a pretty comprehensive report
on Morgellons.
Let's take a look.
>> What's it like to feel
certain that you're sick,
really, truly sick, and
have doctors tell you,
it's all in your mind?
>>KATIE YUSSUF: I
woke up itching.
I thought there was
mites in my skin, which
is the creepiest feeling.
When I first was
looking at my sores,
I could see projections
coming out of them.
A little bit of color
like I'm super healthy.
I'm sick with this disease.
It's called Morgellons,
and it's really weird.
No one believes it.
>> Morgellons, a
mysterious infection that,
according to some researchers,
affects tens of thousands
of Americans.
Its symptoms are strange
and otherworldly,
enormous skin lesions with
multicolored fibers of red,
and blue, and green
growing out of them.
>>YUSSUF: I remember when I
first heard about Morgellons.
But I didn't believe it.
I didn't want to have
something controversial.
I wanted to have something
that has existed before,
has an answer.
But all my searches kept coming
right back to Morgellons.
>> But here's the thing,
according to the Centers
for Disease Control
and Prevention,
Morgellons does not exist.
Many doctors believe
that Morgellons
is a delusional
disorder, that those skin
lesions, like the ones that
Katie has, are self-inflicted.
>>YUSSUF: Doctors,
in the beginning,
thought that I probably
had a mental problem when
I showed up.
They all thought I was nuts.
And they would instantly
just be in the role of,
begone with her.
We can't help her.
>>KATIE ENGELHART: I guess
the tension in all of this
is that Morgellons
doesn't officially exist,
that the CDC says
it doesn't exist.
>>YUSSUF: I think it makes
a lot of us a lot more sick,
the anger of being categorized
like that, and then neglected.
>> One doctor who does treat
hundreds of Morgellons patients
is Dr. Raphael Stricker,
who, depending on your view
of Morgellons, can be
one of several things--
a savior, a medical
pioneer, or a quack.
Dr. Stricker says Morgellons
is linked to Lyme disease.
>>RAPHAEL STRICKER:
So these fibers
that are seen in
Morgellons patients,
they're not some worms, or lint,
or something from outer space.
What they are is they're
fibers that are produced
by the patient's own cells.
And for some reason, these
patients with Lyme disease
overproduce these fibers.
And then they come
up through the skin
and cause these weird lesions.
So the bacteria
that causes Lyme is
called a Spirochete, transmitted
by the bite of a tick.
We've looked at a number
of Morgellons patients.
The last study, I think,
had 25 patients that
had skin lesions with fibers.
All of the patients,
essentially,
had infection with
the Lyme bacteria.
>> But in a 2012 study, the
CDC reported that there was no
common underlying medical
condition for Morgellons
symptoms, that the fibers found
on patient's skin were mostly
bits of cotton.
>>STRICKER: Based
on that though,
they've been very
skeptical about Morgellons.
>> Dr. Stricker says the CDC
study was flawed, in part,
because research subjects didn't
have to have Morgellons fibers
in their skin at the
actual time of the study.
So maybe they didn't
have Morgellons at all.
>>STRICKER:
Dermatologists who should
deal with it have
been told, well, this
isn't a real disease.
And they're crazy, and
they're delusional,
and that's all it is.
Basically, what
we've been doing is
showing that that's not
true, that these are
people who have a real disease.
>> Marianne Middelveen is
a veterinary microbiologist
by training.
She conducts research on
Morgellons with Dr. Stricker.
Some of their work is funded
by a Morgellons advocacy
group called the Charles
E. Holman Foundation.
>>MARIANNE
MIDDELVEEN: I actually
showed that the lesions
contain the Lyme bacteria.
The way we determine if a person
has Morgellons or not is we
look for the presence
of cutaneous filaments
that are in or
embedded in the skin.
>>ENGELHART: I can see
some black strands.
But couldn't that have
come off your dress?
>>YUSSUF: Yes.
>>ENGELHART: Couldn't it
have come off the couch?
>>YUSSUF: Absolutely
can, and I think
that adds to the confusion.
And it's only after
a long time, you
can see it clearly
coming out of the body.
I never brought in any samples.
I learned quickly not to
show any pictures either.
>>ENGELHART: To doctors?
>>YUSSUF: Yes, pretty much,
if you bring anything in,
you can expect a delusional
parasitosis diagnosis.
>> Online Morgellons becomes
a kind of subculture.
And Katie has found
friends there.
Two of them decided to
come visit her in Seattle.
>>YUSSUF: Do you want to try
this new active lesion right
here on my face?
>>MARTHA HUTTON: Yeah.
Yeah, show me-- this one?
>>YUSSUF: Mm-hmm.
>>HUTTON: Show me what--
there's nothing really here.
You can't see it in these--
if she tore that off though,
they would probably be--
because, yeah, I mean, I've--
>>YUSSUF: Because
it's not really open.
>> With a scope,
you can see them.
But you can feel, like when
they're swimming across my eye.
And then it gets in the corner.
And you can pull this
thing out of your eye.
>>YUSSUF: I still have them--
>> I have those a lot.
>>YUSSUF: --every
day, all day long.
I'll go wash my hands now.
[LAUGHS]
>> Yet skeptical doctors
argue that Morgellons is
a psychiatric condition.
They often diagnose
patients with what they
call delusional parasitosis.
>>JOHN KOO: Practically every
practicing dermatologist
will see Morgellons
disease sooner or later.
And most of the patients who
are affected with Morgellons
are women.
They are clean.
They don't have any
substance abuse problem.
And out of nowhere, they start
feeling crawling, biting,
stinging sensations.
And they start becoming very
much worried about parasites.
Many people with Morgellons
go to the dermatologist.
They don't want to
argue with the patient.
It's very unpleasant against
what the patient is saying.
So oftentimes, one
way to just take
care of the situation in a
way that the patients are not
unhappy, no argument, and
they will go home quickly
and happily is to
give them antibiotic.
Those measures practically
never lead to a cure.
It is commonly done.
I hate to say in a way
to get rid of the patient
from the office.
>> Sometimes, Dr. Koo gives
these patients a prescription
for an antipsychotic medication
called pimozide and sends them
on their way.
>>KOO: Ideally, there's a
medication called pimozide.
It's actually a medicine
for Tourette's syndrome.
Pimozide works very
well for these symptoms
and often lead to great
improvement in symptom
if not cure.
>>NOORY: Whoa, what do you
think of that explanation.
>>CARNICOM: I wasn't
picking up all that
in terms of the language.
But I picked up part of it.
And if I'm hearing the notion
of giving a prescription
to try and--
>>NOORY: To alter someone's--
>>CARNICOM: --to
alleviate, in any way,
mitigate or alleviate
this situation,
I'm sorry, at this point, it
doesn't cut it whatsoever,
not even close.
If we understand the impact,
are willing to understand
the impact of this
microbiology upon our body,
it can be interpreted
as none other than
a complete, full assault on
the major systems of the body.
Our medical system,
unfortunately,
the prescriptions, many
of us know this now,
but they do not fix problems.
>>NOORY: Of course not.
They mask it.
>>CARNICOM: They never are
intended to fix a problem,
even if you try to make
the claim, all right?
They are to work
with the symptoms.
Those people that are
willing to get closer
to the origin and
source of a cause
of a problem in our health
are those that are on track.
The nutritionists have a great
deal of respect in my life.
But I know that the
systems of the body
are under assault
here, major systems.
It will include the thyroid,
the blood, the neural system,
cognitive systems, the joint.
Trying to pass someone off with
some type of psychotic medicine
is the most absurd
and ridiculous thing.
That's part of the very
problem that I'm speaking of.
Even what we regard as advanced
medical knowledge is not even
beginning to come close to
understanding and assessing
what the influence
of this condition is.
I do wish to state,
if I can, some of what
I regard as the
significant accomplishments
of this nonprofit.
And they may be the,
essentially, the resting point
of this nonprofit, and what
it wanted to accomplish,
and what it has accomplished.
And that is when you have
something specific that you
can identify, and
you have the skill--
I wasn't raised as
a microbiologist.
I had quite a bit of
schooling in my life,
and I adapt to the situation.
I had to school myself.
But I know a great deal about
this particular microbiology
now.
And I know enough that
this particular organism
can be cultured in
a very specific way.
So the first problem is that
of controlled, regulated growth
of something that's quite real
and identifiable as a microbe.
That has been done.
That's all in place, OK?
Thus far, it only exists
within this nonprofit.
And one of my goals here
will be to see whether or not
this work can ever be
registered and distribute it
among those that do care,
especially those that
appreciate the origins
and cause of ill health,
rather than trying to mask it.
The second will be that, once
the organism has been cultured
in a controlled environment,
the next stage of knowledge
is to try to learn to break
this up into its parts.
All living creatures are
made of four basic types
of organic compounds.
One will be proteins.
One of them will
be lipids or fats.
Another will be carbohydrates.
And another will be nucleic
acids, basically a DNA scene.
You want to come up with these
things for that way, right?
You want to come up
with these things
to progress that knowledge
to the next stage.
I have done that for
this microbe, OK?
>>NOORY: What do you think
has caused this Morgellons
disease in people?
>>CARNICOM: Well,
it is the result
of a very specific microbe.
The answer is it's a
submicron, submicron,
coccus form, and a bacteria.
It is very similar--
it has many attributes
of the bacteria world.
However, I mentioned
earlier, that it crosses over
into other domains.
And there's problems with
a straightforward bacterial
classification, OK?
But I will make the claim
that that specific microbe
is responsible.
And I will make it
based upon evidence.
I have 400, basically, research
papers that I will present.
>>NOORY: That's huge.
>>CARNICOM: If somebody wishes
to examine it, I will say,
you will have to
look at the evidence.
You're not allowed--
no one is allowed
to adopt a position
of skepticism
until you do the work.
You have to read the papers.
And if you have
any doubt about it,
you have to repeat all the work.
All the work I've done,
one of the standards
is that of repeatability.
It's one of the
rules of science.
That's a huge task
for 400 papers.
Essentially, it's all there, OK?
In addition to the
biomolecules of life,
the next thing you need, if
you can get it, is the DNA.
I have the DNA for
this organism, OK?
I know how to get
it, and I have it.
>>NOORY: Was it done
internationally, Clifford?
>>CARNICOM: Again, we
don't know the answer.
How do we know the
answers to that which
we're not privy to, right?
We can try to work
to the answers.
But we don't have them.
What I can do is present
possibilities, right?
Where did it come from?
I don't know.
>>NOORY: And when?
>>CARNICOM: Possibilities
are, first of all,
to acknowledge and be aware
that even in and are always
these claims of how
we know everything,
in the world of
microbiology, we're
lucky if we know
a few percentage
points of the number
of species that
exist in the microbial world.
We know nothing, OK?
So one possibility is we don't
even know that it existed.
That's one, OK?
But you'll have to look
at history and chronology.
Unfortunately, you have
a onset and an arrival
of this particular
condition, we're
talking the last 20, 30 years.
So we don't have something
that has a history prior
to what we know of.
>>NOORY: So what you
can say though is
you believe Morgellons,
this disease,
has come from geoengineering.
But you don't know if
it's intentional or not,
could be a mistake.
>>CARNICOM: No,
it's intentional.
We know that much.
It's by design.
We know that much
because it's dispersed.
It's dispersed.
>>NOORY: What's the intent then?
>>CARNICOM: The intent is
within those seven fields
that I mentioned.
That's a broad
discussion, right?
But the intent is within
those seven fields.
We could talk about biology
alone in one of those seven,
as we're doing in part.
But if we're saying--
we talked about the
motive of human beings,
alone, to want to be able to
manipulate and control things.
And that includes life.
>>NOORY: Can you
die from Morgellons?
What happens?
What are the--
>>CARNICOM: Yes, sure you can.
>>NOORY: What are the outcomes?
>>CARNICOM: There's plenty
of people that have died.
And I mentioned that people have
offered me their bodies, right?
>>NOORY: Have they committed
suicide because of this?
>>CARNICOM: Sure, they have.
Sure, they have.
>>NOORY: So what
if this organism
was developed to destroy
populations by driving people
insane, by driving people nuts.
You feel bugs under your skin.
You go crazy.
Is that conceivable?
>>CARNICOM: I don't--
because everything,
almost everything is
conceivable to me.
I don't think that
that assessment
is comprehensive
enough to explain
the depth and scope
of the existence
of this particular microbe.
>>NOORY: Cliff, the CDC, have
they recognized Morgellons
at all?
>>CARNICOM: So the CDC
has done a purported study
on this issue.
And they have issued a report.
I wrote a paper on that report
because it certainly upset
and angered me enough because
it was completely and totally
irresponsible.
>>NOORY: Oh, boy.
>>CARNICOM: I come
from a scientific side.
So I'm looking for
scientific information.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>CARNICOM: First of all,
this was a summary report.
I saw no detail in this report.
I saw, basically,
what would appear
to be a public press release
type thing of this study.
And I saw two major things
glaring in that report.
First would be it was
more of an implication.
It wasn't like any kind of
direct scientific study to me.
It was an implication
that the people that
were in this particular group--
and by the way, I will claim
that this particular situation
affects all of humanity.
>>NOORY: Of course.
>>CARNICOM: They have a
particular cond-- their groups,
right?
The implication is that
these people have problems.
And what kind of
problems do they have?
They're attend-- they're
prone to alcohol use.
>>NOORY: Oh, boy.
>>CARNICOM: They're
prone to drug use, OK?
There's something
about this group
that they're actually
misfits in society.
And therefore, they
have their own problem.
>>NOORY: And they've created
this thing in their heads,
right?
>>CARNICOM: And the second
issue I saw, they mentioned,
they said, we do find a protein.
And guess what?
That's about all they said,
that we find a protein.
Now, when I hear somebody that
tells me, I have a protein,
I have spent years
studying the protein.
When I said I had broken
those biomolecules down
of this organism, one
of them is proteins.
Proteins are a huge topic,
huge topic of study,
extremely important.
The reason you exist in your
form is because of proteins.
The reason a dog looks like
a dog is a protein, OK?
It gives form and
structure to things.
If you start saying
you find a protein,
you need to know everything
about that protein.
Proteins have
layers of structure.
Proteins are involved with--
most disease therapies
and strategies
are based upon some type of
interaction with a protein.
You can't just say, you find a
protein, and let it go at that.
I immediately expected
to find a description,
a detailed description,
or the fact
that they were
going to investigate
the detailed description
of that protein.
That would take
millions of dollars.
It's equivalent
to the HIV issue.
It's equivalent to the
diabetes and insulin issue.
This is a scale of
something you're
talking about when
you're speaking
of a protein associated
with a disease.
They gave nothing, OK?
They gave no
information about that.
I have spent years after
this studying this protein.
And I know a great deal
about the nature and--
the chemical and organic
nature of this protein.
And it's not a good situation.
That was not in
this report at all.
Like I said, you have a
certain stage you go through--
identification, culturing,
identification, biomolecules,
and DNA.
And by the way, that DNA,
that's a lot of your story
right there.
This is what you need
to be working with,
not some sort of
social study that
starts to characterize
people from a psychological
standpoint.
And then says, oh, yeah,
there happens to be a protein,
and let it go.
It is completely,
completely remiss
in terms of social
responsibility.
>>NOORY: Clifford, I've
interviewed a lot of people.
And you're one of the best
at what you talk about.
You also seem to be the
most compassionate person
and fired up I've ever seen.
This really upsets
you, doesn't it?
>>CARNICOM: What is our
place on this planet?
>>NOORY: It's emotional
for you, isn't it?
Are they killing us?
>>CARNICOM: Well.
>>NOORY: Can I say that?
Can I say that directly?
Are they killing us?
>>CARNICOM: I can say in
my diplomatic language,
that the mortality rate
is increasing because
of the impacts of the entire set
of seven arenas of application.
>>NOORY: Yes, all combined.
>>CARNICOM: The mortality rate
upon the planet is increasing.
The disease state and the
health state is omnipresent.
It's everywhere.
Everyone is affected
to some degree.
You cannot be not affected.
You breathe, right?
You breathe.
I breathe.
If the air has been
altered, and it has,
and the nature of the alteration
can be assessed, which it has,
it is detrimental.
There is actually
nothing you can put in--
you talked about, can you
improve upon Mother Nature?
No, you can't
improve upon the air
by putting something
into it, OK?
>>NOORY: Who's doing this to us?
Is there some sinister
group on this planet?
Are they being done
by governments?
Who's behind this?
>>CARNICOM: You know, I had
to wrestle with this question
fairly recently in a
conference I did in Santa Fe
earlier this year.
And this question always
comes up as to who, right?
>>NOORY: Who?
Who?
>>CARNICOM: And what I
have come to in terms of--
I ask the problem,
what is it that you
need to know in order to be able
to get a handle on a problem?
And the classic training
was, which is true,
the classic training
is you need the W's.
You need who, what, when,
where, and why, right?
You need these things
in order to understand
the scope of a situation.
>>NOORY: It's basic journalism.
>>CARNICOM: [INAUDIBLE], right?
So I looked at this
over the years.
And I've heard this question
over and over and over.
And I started to go
through all of those W's.
And I asked myself,
what do we know?
Do we know anything
about those W's?
And I went through every one.
And I have come
to the conclusion
that we know a fair
amount, a fair amount,
enough for me to be able to
make certain claims to you
that I would not make lightly.
And I can say that all of
those W's, to some degree--
I'm not saying
completely at all.
But they've been-- they
actually have been addressed
to some degree except for one.
>>NOORY: Who?
>>CARNICOM: And guess
what the one is, OK?
>>NOORY: Who?
Who?
>>CARNICOM: And for
those that say, well,
why would anybody do this?
I will make the claim
to you that we all
have the responsibility
to answer that final W,
and that we, when we
know the who, we will now
be able to answer certain
questions that have always
remained inescapable because
it is one of the essentials.
It is true, what we can say,
is that the who have not
chosen to reveal themselves.
This is what we can say.
>>NOORY: They don't want to.
>>CARNICOM: The who
has not come forth.
There is no consent.
There is no consent to the
changes and alterations that
are taking place upon the
planet, that involve all seven
of those arenas.
They violate basic human rights.
>>NOORY: Could this be
a rogue organization?
>>CARNICOM: It could
be anything, OK?
And again, I try very hard to
not eliminate any possibility
until you have grounds
to eliminate it.
And at this point, nothing can
be eliminated in terms of what
who really means and what the
scale of that who really means.
You can come up with some
strategic answers that
address a portion of
how things can work
in terms of power structures.
But you can not truly address it
when someone operates-- or call
it even a someone--
again, you, one,
must be careful to
make assumptions.
But whatever the who is, until
you know that, you are not
in a position to be answering
the very questions that you're
asking about the
unknowns, right?
>>NOORY: Based on your
research, would you
say that the Morgellons
aspect of all
of this that we've
talked about today
may be the worst of everything?
Or is there something
else out there?
>>CARNICOM: I had
to make a decision.
My work has its origins--
roughly 20 years of work now.
My work has its origins in
the geoengineering aspects,
primarily, primarily,
but not exclusively,
but what was being done
physically to alter our planet.
Out of that work
evolved this work
into the biological
aspect more strongly, OK?
I actually reached a junction
point in my research,
where I only have so much time.
I have to make choices
about priorities.
And it's true that I
shifted the focus of my work
into the biological aspects, OK?
And I did that because of,
really, a couple reasons.
You could say in a sense an
act of desperation because we
don't have infinite time.
I certainly don't
have infinite time.
But I realize, in terms of
how the human mind works,
and they're actually
very egocentric.
Most people think
about themselves.
They do not think about
all life on this planet
as a regular part
of their life, OK?
>>NOORY: They're
into their own thing.
>>CARNICOM: In general,
humans are very self-centered.
And so I had to ask myself,
in the time that I have,
what is the greatest
good, what is
the greatest benefit that I can
bring to light at this point?
Because I know, from my own
experience, that when I'm sick,
I can't fight.
When I'm sick, I can
not be the human being
that I know is my life.
And I see that as a decision
for all of humanity,
that we cannot fight
if we are not healthy,
if we are not of sound mind.
We don't even have the
ability to even, necessarily,
know what to do if we're
debilitized in some way,
and hurt in some kind
of way, debilitated.
We can't.
So I think that it
was necessary to shift
my focus so that we could fight
because we do need to fight.
We need to fight
for what is right.
>>NOORY: When you join the
great hereafter, who picks up
this torch and runs with it?
>>CARNICOM: It's one
of the greatest issues
that I'm wrestling with.
I'm not 26 anymore.
I'm not 46.
I'm 66, soon to be 67.
So I, through my whole
life, when I was 25,
I was thinking of what it
would be like to be 67.
So I am quite aware of this
problem and this issue.
And I'm trying to work on it
quite diligently, actually.
And I have to say that
the work I've done
as an individual in
a small nonprofit,
it's actually
mature, as far as I
am able to-- those are some very
significant accomplishments,
I feel and think,
in terms of what's
available to the scientific
community and health
communities to progress with.
I mean, I think I have a good
sense of what needs to be done.
It's very logical to me what you
do next with the information.
I will never have the
resources to do that.
So it's fair to say that it's
time for me to consolidate
the work that I've done.
And this is a phase that I'm
entering in, this attempt
to consolidate the work.
And I've actually already
seen the transition
of generations and the issue.
>>NOORY: Is that a good thing?
>>CARNICOM: You
have a 20-year-old--
you have a 20-year-old
kid right now?
When you ask them what's normal,
it's a fascinating question.
What's normal?
What's normal is
what they've grown up
with for 20 years, right?
So this is what's
normal to them.
I know that it's
not my norm when
I grew up, the
alterations in our world.
>>NOORY: Are you
hopeful for the future?
>>CARNICOM: Oh,
I'm always hopeful.
As long as we know
the difference
between right and wrong, I
can be hopeful eternally.
>>NOORY: Clifford, if people
want more information on what
you do, how can they find you?
>>CARNICOM: The Institute
does exist on the web.
I'm here in person with you.
And I thank you for that.
But there's a library
of research on the web.
>>NOORY: Spell out
your Institute for us.
>>CARNICOM:
carnicominstitute.org
is the name of it.
My last name is Carnicom,
C-A-R-N-I-C-O-M,
and then the word Institute.org.
I will emphasize .org.
The .com is a troll site,
carnicominstitute.org.
And there's an email there.
You could send it to anything,
but info@carnicominstitute.org
will work.
We're a small organization.
Like I say, I'm planning
our period of consolidation
and protection of the work.
And I'm looking ahead.
I also have a major
proposal in place,
whether or not it will
ever be acted upon.
I don't know.
But I am essentially
appealing to the world.
I am appealing to
philanthropy at this stage.
I have certain ethical
boundaries and guidelines
in terms of what I
think needs to happen.
The public interest
does need to be served.
So I am working on protecting
the work when I'm not here.
And my job is to
make it available
for future generations
at this stage.
And if anyone does wish to act
on the proposals I've made,
which are listed on the site,
I will become very engaged
in that process.
>>NOORY: Super, Clifford,
thanks for having
the guts to come forward.
>>CARNICOM: Thank you
very much, George.
I appreciate it as always.
>>NOORY: Geoengineering,
bioengineering, it's happening.
The big question is why?
We'll keep looking
for that answer.
I'm George Noory.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[MUSIC PLAYING]